Add linking capabilities between libtorch and STM. (#19602)
idaholab/moose: modules/doc/content/getting_started/installation/install_libtorch.md

# Libtorch (Pytorch C++ API)

The way one enables libtorch capabilities in MOOSE depends on
the operating system (Linux or Mac) and if we use HPC or just a local workstation.

!alert! note
Before we review the main approaches, it is important to emphasize that
linking MOOSE with libtorch on Linux machines is not supported if the compiler stack has been built
using a `libc` version below 2.27 (for `libtorch v 1.8+`)
or 2.23 (for `libtorch v1.4-1.8`). Furthermore, we do not support `libtorch` versions below
v1.4. To check your currently used libc version use the following command:

```bash
ldd --version

> ```

Author: Good point, I'll rephrase it.

> ```

Author: I emphasized that this is for Linux machines only.

!alert-end!

## Setting up the environment

For Mac workstations, the user needs to create a conda environment using the
instructions [here](installation/conda.md). On Linux machines, however,
we cannot use the conda packages due to the mismatch between `libc` versions.
For this reason, given that the system `libc` version allows the linking between
the two libraries, we need to install `PETSc` and `libmesh` manually. For instructions
on the installation of these, see [installation/hpc_install_moose.md].

In situations when the `libc` version allows the linking but the compiler stack
has been compiled with an older `libc` version (HPC machines potentially), we need to build the
compiler from scratch. For instructions in this process, visit [installation/manual_installation_gcc.md]

## Installing Libtorch

The user can choose from two alternatives when it comes to installing `libtorch`:

- +Install using the script provided in MOOSE:+

  For this, navigate to the MOOSE root directory and execute the following script:

  ```bash
  ./scripts/setup_libtorch.sh

>   ```

Reviewer: Should we delete ".zip" as well after we already extract contents?

```
(moose) kongf@contrib % ls
README				exodiff				hit				libtorch			mtwist				pugixml
boost				gtest				json				libtorch-macos-1.8.0.zip	pcre				tinydir
(moose) kongf@contrib % 
```

Reviewer: I do think we should delete ".zip", otherwise, we will have more and more

```
(moose) kongf@contrib % ls     
README				exodiff				hit				libtorch			libtorch-macos-1.8.0.zip	pcre				tinydir
boost				gtest				json				libtorch-macos-1.10.0.zip	mtwist	
```

Reviewer: In order make the workflow  a bit easier in the future, ` ./scripts/setup_libtorch.sh` should "`rm`" all installed torch world and download and install

Author: The only reason I left the .zip file is that if the user want to set up the new installation after doing a clobberall or git clean -xf, they won't have to download it again. It is not a huge issue if you are in the office, but can save some data if you are at home.

Author: I added a cleanup step at the beginning of the script, will keep the zip files for now.

  which downloads `libtorch` from the official site and sets it up in the `framework\contrib`
  directory. The script checks for operating system and `libc` version and throws errors
  if the system is not suitable for the coupling.

  !alert! note
  The desired version of libtorch can be set by the following argument:

  ```bash
  ./scripts/setup_libtorch.sh --version=1.8

>   ```

Reviewer: We might mention what would be the default version if users do not specify one

Author: Added!

  Note that we do not support `libtorch` below a version

  !alert-end!

- +Install from source:+
  The user can find instructions on how to install libtorch from source on the

>   [official website](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/docs/libtorch.rst).

Reviewer: Do we still have libc limitations if users choose to install from source?

Author: I think you will get errors at linking when you try to compile libtorch with the moose linux conda stack.

## Configure and compile  MOOSE with libtorch

To achieve this, first call the configure script the following way:

```bash
./configure --with-libtorch

> ```

Reviewer: As a user, I would like to have `./configure --download-libtorch` that automatically configure and download torch that can be used in the framework

Reviewer: But it might be too much for this PR? Or other users might not like this? Just PETSc style. Feel to skip it if that does not make sense or requires too much work

Author: Okay, I'll add it to my list. I don't think I'll be able to do this, not straight forward unfortunately.

!alert! note
If you would like to use a custom libtorch distribution or a manually compiled
version, the destination of the libtorch directory can be supplied to the
configure script by

```bash
./configure --with-libtorch=/path/to/my/custom/libtorch

> ```

Reviewer: `--with-libtorch-dir `would be better/clearer?

Reviewer: BTW, it is a great option. Potentially, I would link my own torch

Author: I'll change the name of the argument when I add the separate donload function. However, it would take too much time at this point. I need to learn how to write custom macros for autoconf.

compiler from scratch. For instructions in this process, visit [installation/manual_installation_gcc.md]

## Installing Libtorch

The user can choose from two alternatives when it comes to installing `libtorch`:

- +Install using the script provided in MOOSE:+

  For this, navigate to the MOOSE root directory and execute the following script:

  ```bash
  ./scripts/setup_libtorch.sh
  ```

  which downloads `libtorch` from the official site and sets it up in the `framework\contrib`
  directory. The script checks for operating system and `libc` version and throws errors
  if the system is not suitable for the coupling.

  !alert! note
  The desired version of libtorch can be set by the following argument:

  ```bash
  ./scripts/setup_libtorch.sh --version=1.8
  ```

  Note that we do not support `libtorch` below a version of 1.4. The default
  version downloaded by the script is 1.10.

  !alert-end!

- +Install from source:+
  The user can find instructions on how to install libtorch from source on the
  [official website](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/docs/libtorch.rst).

> ## Configure and compile  MOOSE with libtorch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure and compile MOOSE with libtorch
```

> To achieve this, first call the configure script the following way:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To achieve this, first configure MOOSE with `libtorch` support (along with any other desired configure options)
```

```bash
./configure --with-libtorch
```

!alert! note
If you would like to use a custom libtorch distribution or a manually compiled
version, the destination of the libtorch directory can be supplied to the
configure script by

```bash
./configure --with-libtorch=/path/to/my/custom/libtorch
```

Also note that the library files (.so/.dylib) and the headers in the custom
libtorch installation should follow that of the official distribution handled
by the `setup_libtorch.sh` script.

!alert-end!

The last step is to compile MOOSE with libtorch support:

```bash
make -j 8
```

> The same procedure is expected to work with every other module and the framework itself.

Reviewer 2: After configured, compile MOOSE as normal.

Author: Addressed!
